https://caviarstar.com/pages/shipping
Retrieved: 2026-10-06

Home/Shipping

Shipping

SHIPPING POLICY

All perishables are shipped UPS next day air. Non-perishables can be shipped ground service at lower cost. Please consider potential carrier delays by ordering 2-3 days in advance. 

Perishables are shipped via UPS Next Day Air. Choose your desired delivery date on the checkout page. 

*Due to extremely high order volumes in December, order-processing times may be longer than usual. Please contact us directly if you need assistance or have questions ordering. 

Please call us if you have questions or need help placing your order.

Caviar Star Orders:

Our caviar is shipped refrigerated in our custom designed insulated packaging, and will keep cold for up to 72 hours. Your shipment will arrive fresh, usually the day after it is ordered. 

Perishable items are shipped next-day, via UPS overnight delivery and non-perishable items are shipped UPS Ground unless you have requested otherwise.

We are open M-F, therefore we can deliver Tuesday-Friday, and Saturday via UPS Saturday Overnight.

We will do our part to get your order out and delivered to you on the desired date, however, sometimes unforeseen delays, such as higher than normal shipping volumes or adverse weather, might delay the delivery date of your order. We pay to insure our Express shipments to better protect against service disruptions, however, we may hold your order to prevent spoilage if there is severe weather or an official courier service delay that is not covered.

Orders for perishable items received by 1 PM Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Thursday, are processed and shipped the same-day unless a later ship date is requested or a seasonal volume and/or weather delay notice has been posted to the policies page of our site. Orders received on Friday are processed same-day only if accompanied by an extra Saturday Delivery charge per address to our standard calculated shipping charges. Please note that Saturday delivery is not available to all locations. If your order is urgent, please call us and we will do whatever we can to expedite it.

Standard shipping and handling charges are calculated at checkout based on your location, package dimensions, weight, and desired shipping speed. Perishables should only be shipped Next Day. Non-perishables usually are shipped UPS Ground service unless you select expedited service. Additional surcharges are added to orders going to Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and Alaska. Details will be provided at checkout.

Shipping prices are not inflated, they are actually discounted rates due to our large volume contract with UPS and tiered shipping discounts.

Online images are representations only. Actual products or brands may vary slightly.

Accurate Shipping Quotes: Our shipping rates are very competitive due to our order volume and represent best averages - We do not inflate shipping prices. Shipping rates are calculated based on your location from our facility, desired speed, and box dimensions/weight.

Order value shipping discounts: The more you spend on your purchase, the more your save on shipping costs!

Spend $100, get 10% off shipping cost.
Spend $200, get 20% off shipping cost.
Spend $300, get 30% off shipping cost.
Spend $400, get 40% off shipping cost.
Spend $500 = Free Shipping.

Free shipping: Order values totaling $500 or more (before the shipping fee) will qualify for free shipping on us. Shipping insurance will be applied at no charge and signature will be required upon delivery unless you change it yourself via courier (insurance does not cover for extreme weather delays).

Perishable shipments over $500 receive FREE Next-Day Shipping.

Non-Perishable shipments over $500 receive FREE GROUND Shipping.

Customer/Address Information:

Caviar and other perishable products purchased through Caviar Star can only be insured when delivering within the United States. UPS has guaranteed delivery within the 50 US states, but shipments going via USPS and/or to US territories, protectorates, and military bases are not covered for spoilage. International customers should contact us for info and pricing on overseas shipments.

Caviar and perishables are not guaranteed to be deliver to a PO Box on-time and therefore are not permitted. Non-perishables going to a PO box will go UPS or USPS. Please indicate a full shipping address and telephone number when ordering.

We are not responsible for incorrect addresses. Please carefully check name, address and zip code of recipient. 

To prevent fraudulent activity, new customers who place orders that have different "Bill to" and "Ship to" addresses will be contacted before their order ships. Such orders will not ship until the purchaser confirms the shipment.

Please provide any "Special Shipping Instructions" at checkout, in the "Order Instructions/Comments (Optional)" field of the order confirmation section. We are not responsible, for loss or damage to deliveries requested with "no signature required", or, for delivery delays that are beyond our control.

Packing Slip/Invoice: Inside the package there will be no paperwork showing the prices paid on your order, only a Caviar Star packing slip to show the contents of the box. Please notify us in advance if you want an invoice included with your shipment.

Receiving Shipments: Please inspect all packages and products immediately at delivery. For greater success in filing a claim, be sure to keep any damaged goods or packaging in the same condition as delivered. Contact us and/or the carrier with any issues regarding a damaged or tampered with shipment within 48 hours, ideally within 24, and take photo evidence and send to us immediately.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

RETURNS

CHEF, DISTRIBUTOR, WHOLESALE AND INTERNATIONAL POLICY

SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
