https://greatatlantictradinginc.com/shipping.html
Retrieved: 2026-10-06

Sending Caviar and Fine Foods Across the Globe

Great Atlantic Trading Inc. is a leader in logistical support for all clients needing caviar and other fine foods, or the packaging materials required to further process products and attract consumers. We can calculate shipping or tariff costs in advance and give delivered pricing on any order needed in the international or domestic market. Tell us what you need and we can figure out the fastest, cheapest and safest method of getting it to you. 

Courier services: UPS, FedEx, the US Postal Service, and DHL  are all utilized by Great Atlantic for smaller sized orders for both perishable and non-perishable products delivered nationally or internationally. We are able to quote customers accurate freight costs delivered to their doorstep with greatly reduced rates thanks to our company's high ship volume. Specialized courier and handling arrangements such a re-icing product can be made for time/temp sensitive shipments.

Air Freight: We use Airline cargo when available for lower costs on shipping larger distribution orders. We are able to book the flights in advance, providing our customers with the flight schedule, air freight cost and Airway Bill information. Simply pay the import fees at the airport and receive your order quickly at any international airport near you. Perishable shipments can be flown with dry ice after we set up the proper dangerous goods paperwork and labeling.

Trucking Services: Our company arranges Less Than Truckload (LTL), Partial Truckload, and Full Truckload (TL) freight services for non-perishable shipments as well as those requiring refrigerated or freezer temperatures. We can setup the trucking services both inside the U.S. and in an outside country of destination to deliver pallets of our products safely and efficiently. Common carriers include Frozen Food Express (FFE), UPS Freight, R + L Carriers, Southeastern Freight Lines, Saia, Ward Trucking and many others.

International and Ocean Freight: For large size orders going overseas we will usually truck the pallets to the best port option for the type of product and country of delivery. We are able to ship both Full Container Loads (FCL) and Less Than Container Loads (LCL) from shipping ports in Wilmington NC, Charleston SC, Miami FL, New York City NY, Los Angeles CA, and Seattle WA. Shipping containers can be frozen and refrigerated when needed and delivery arrangements can be established once the product has arrived and been cleared form port.

Broker Services: Great Atlantic continually works with numerous brokers to help manage trucking/delivery and find the best price on bringing in imports and sending out exports. Our brokers can help arrange courier services and keep temperature sensitive products cold, fresh or frozen, while waiting on internationally bound planes and container ships.

 CITES - TRUST & TRACEABILITY

All sturgeon, paddlefish, and caviar-related products imported and or exported into any country worldwide must have a CITES permit (Convention Of International Trade In Endangered Species) to prove the products were harvested legally and without detriment to the species in accordance with the international CITES law.   All imports and exports must be labeled with the CITES number for each individual lot and a copy of this document must be kept on file to prove the goods were of legal status.  If you would be interested in importing any of our products please fell feel to contact us at any time.

​RETURN POLICY
Great Atlantic Trading fully guarantees all its products for freshness and quality. Inspect your order as soon as it arrives. If you are not 100% satisfied with your purchase or there is any error or damage to the shipment, please email or call our toll free customer service number within 24 hours of receipt so that we can immediately remedy the situation. Please keep records and photos of damaged shipment, perishables must be appropriately refrigerated until shipping claims are finalized. We appreciate your business and are committed to the best service we can provide!


[Footer: Great Atlantic Trading Inc., 563 Seaside Rd Sw, Ocean Isle Beach, NC 28469; 1(888) 268-8780; 1(910) 575-7979]
